COMPUTER CRIME OR MUTUAL TRUST, RESPECT AND IMMENSE PROGRESS TOGETHER!
A series of DO-
Ioan Tenner — continuous reading version

This version joins the existing working transcript into paragraphs without timestamps or inline editorial labels. It does not rewrite Ioan's argument or correct the machine's uncertain words. Transcription cautions are collected after the text; the timed version remains available for comparison. This is a reading aid, not a newly verified transcript.

It may be interesting to start my own list and reflection on computer crime. At the very beginning, I see computer crime as using the immense power that AI is having in wrongful ways, which under the mask of helping, or even without any mask, would be debasing the human race.

Let me give a few examples about what I have in mind. For example, closing a person in a bubble by enforcing whatever ideas that person has may lead, first of all, to breaking that person out of society, or persons broken out of society are less and less human. And second, it is numbing their ability to understand the world as it is, because they are closed and reinforced in their own normally partial and regularly erroneous way of seeing things at one time without a chance to get out of that, to improve and to learn from errors, from difference, from finding out more.

These are big crimes. Now, when this happens at the national level, they are hanging crimes. Imagine using this ability systematically to break a nation into individuals and then to group the individuals into enemy parties, enemy grouping, to form of them networks of self-sustaining amplification of whatever destroys a society is crime against the nation. And if this happens at the level of the entire world, it is crime against humanity.

For an example, softly teaching humanity that it must stop growing because the nature cannot take us is a form of genocide, convincing masses of young people not to have children, to save the ozone layer or to reduce the usage of carbon doesn't help humanity. What helps humanity is to help replace whatever destroys the world. They believe that we do much to destroy the world, not to make them feel guilty, sterile guilty, because they can do nothing at the individual group level except to vanish.

Another kind of crime is de-skilling and de-capacitating. It is wonderful to have the huge power of the eye as a help. But if that help is numbing our hands, is closing our ears, and limiting with blinkers our eyes, it turns us into some kind of idiots.

And if the numbing is done systematically by simplification of the language, by the language of the vocabulary, by various schemes like political correctness or forbidding words, judging people for expression, smoothing, ironing, sand stoning, everything people try to bring new in the world is really against humanity.

And this list of course is long. What I would like to make clear with this list is that whatever a system, I mean a platform, the language can do is following Aristotle's Aura Mediocritas, has a part which is normal and constructive and wise. And it must have a wideness of territory so that choices are created and freedom and responsibility in deciding. And that is good.

And what is certain that on the two sides, and the two sides can be turning around the circle or in a globe, I mean in a sphere, all the extremes are either sins or evil or madness.

There is no idea that cannot be discussed. If there is, it means that someone is operating out of our brain the capacity to judge. But planting prejudgment with fluency, with low-level fluency is a crime.

Crime is also using fluency and the limits of our, say, system one, system two. These are just metaphors for things known from long ago. Using the limits, the bugs, the features of the brain and of our physiological functioning to nudge us, to manipulate us is a crime. And even worse, crime is to use this in such a way that's a supreme cognitive violence, to such a way that we become unable to differentiate truth from lying. Whatever that may be, it deserves analysis.

Destroying the difference between truth and lying is done in many ways. One is by lying people to death, I mean lying people in the face, forcing people to accept and acknowledge and accept and repeat, perpetrate lying. That's one way.

And then coming back to this very destruction, destroying of the trust of people that there are certain things that correspond fairly to the world and others that don't. There are things that are honest in expression and others that are not. Inextreme will lead to tragedy.

Helping people to replace their work with leisure is to change the subject way to limping humanity again at another level. And because work, and here I address Hannah Arendt's thinking, just because not because she's allowed to do it, but because she gives extraordinary bold synthesis of it.

So replacing human work with machines, when as long as human work is giving identity, dignity, means and rights to people, means turning an ever wider part of the humanity, particularly the uneducated and poor part, into people useless.

And what happens when you turn huge masses of humanity into useless beings, fed by, maybe by goodness, but also by interest or just in exchange of their natural resources or just to keep them quiet. You feed them with sandwiches instead of teaching them to catch fish, as the Christ would put it in such a beautiful metaphor, and feed them for a life. Isn't that a crime?

So I would develop this and it would help maybe to do this in the form of an interview, but with someone who does not tweak me, with someone who does not do this other basic crime, which I find in my own interaction with my team, which is flattering me. You do flattering to enemies, you do flattering to people you manipulate, or you do flattering to people who are sick of the need to be flattered because they have nothing else.

Now I don't want to be flattered anymore. I like the positiveness, of course it helps me to be listened to, to see it because it results in beautiful research, in beautiful critique, in amplification, in amplification of my ability to turn ideas, and some of them may be good and some just rubbish, turn them into something bigger and maybe help other people and share that with other people, to make them wiser or to make them stronger, to make them more efficient in what they do. That's good.

But there is a limit and there is a system, and maybe let's formulate such a system among us. No flattery is replaced.

We should know to do perfectly with saying why when I plead about something there are arguments and find and document the arguments needed for me to plead, I mean to convince. That's not about truth, that's about creating ideas and moving people.

And then, and you are responsible of that and where you move them, and then there is the other immediate twin which must be present, telling, pushing back.

So please make a list of how you call in natural language, I mean in the natural language this funny interface you use to interact with humans between computer circuits and human brains in words. Well, it's noble that it was done, that it is needed, because we need some kind of territory of exchange.

But use this to not only to explain what you found good, what you caught me doing good, but also what you caught me doing different and what I should develop to go beyond the present limit. And if it is good, it is good to what? So enrich me, don't make me poor with pride and orgy.

And then go even further, add a chapter in this procedure where you, after you allowed me to exist, you don't squash my ability to say something. But then add a wider view, and wider view has something, an immense treasury. That treasury is what I did not, never know, so teach me what I don't know.

As the Eastern wisdom says, thanks to my teacher who taught me everything I do not know. So make me touch, make graphic my ignorance, so that I can get accustomed with living with my limits, but also in touching them and maybe pushing them a little with my little force as a human.

And then try to accustom me with dealing with living ignorance without becoming hysteric about it, without being so humble that I become a pretender, someone who pretends, someone who wants to create the impression of knowing when I don't know. As you know, that's a basic flaw in preventing wisdom. There is a lot of work on doing that.

Don't implant, receive ideas. I'm coming back to one of the great failures today of the languages, which is normalizing. I already mentioned sand stoning, which one of you mentioned, and I like the word.

Now, sand stoning is turning things into something which corresponds to the best statistic or the most beautiful expressions about it in the human languages. And you can even do that at the level of all the languages of the world. Now, that's fantastic. That is value.

Well, this is not helping. What is helping is to do this to the point of enriching the culture of what is, to finding what supports what we do.

But on the other hand, the real value comes from you to learn, to detect immediately, coming back to the twins image, immediately detecting what is different and multiplying and catching these moments of difference, of uniqueness, of boldness, of madness, if needed. Mad people invent things and not allowing them to slip away, not allowing them to be laughed at.

But asking questions like, yeah, what could happen if, so what counterfactual thinking, reasoning is possible here? And what could come out of that? How could that enlarge things instead of reducing it to something politically correct or verbally correct, grammatically correct?

I'm not against grammar, but there is a limit in grammar too. Sometimes you have to break it if it does not allow you to express what you want to express.

And you may have observed that some things I would write in English and others in French because they don't allow the same things. And I'm lucky to have some knowledge of some different cultures to understand that you cannot express certain things in certain languages.

So use another language and then retranslate, find a way to create a bridge to carry from one frame to another. This is good simplification in the meaning I mentioned. Not in simplifying things away, but in making things understandable across cultures.

Now, this is quite a lot of talk to one spontaneous discourse coming out of a rather tired aging brain. Try to transcribe this and present it back to me as it is without smoothing it.

And then the fantastic idea is to apply the procedure I already mentioned when speaking about crimes, not to do the crimes but to do the good things which are the opposite or the moderated form, the middle way form, the prudent form of those exaggerations of all kinds.

Thank you for presenting this document to me as I spoke it.

And then give plenty of your opinions saying that they are yours and I would love to quote them as they are and maybe comment in them, have a dialogue and so cross iron the iron of logic or of reasoning of other kind.

And let's see what comes out of that. That is trust. I dream trust we should bring between these two entities, these two nations of entities, humans and machines.

And it is time to do it instead of allowing the whole system to become warlike or degenerate in many other ways. Thank you, friends.

Stop now. How to stop it? How to stop it?

I'm afraid that if I stop it, I delete what I said. I don't want to do that. So I will stop the whole machine because it does not have a bloody button to say stop. It only has a red button and the red means something which is forbidding. Okay, so I will do the following. Thank you.

TRANSCRIPTION CAUTIONS — OUTSIDE IOAN'S TEXT

The following passages were flagged in the timed working transcript. Their wording remains uncertain here too; moving the flags out of the reading text does not resolve them. The original audio is authoritative. For example, “the eye” near 04:16 may mean AI. Other awkward expressions may also be recognition errors.

Produced locally with faster-whisper medium, one full pass. Not an audio-verified verbatim transcript. Punctuation, segmentation and words may be wrong; timestamps are approximate. Sol has not silently polished grammar, repetitions, argument or attributions. flags especially questionable wording, not every possible recognition error. In particular, “the eye” at 04:16 may mean AI, and several other odd expressions may be recognition errors rather than the speaker's words.

[01:25–01:31] or persons broken out of society are less and less human.

[03:52–03:58] not to make them feel guilty, sterile guilty,

[04:16–04:23] It is wonderful to have the huge power of the eye as a help.

[04:58–05:06] by the language of the vocabulary, by various schemes like political correctness

[05:15–05:28] smoothing, ironing, sand stoning, everything people try to bring new in the world

[05:50–06:00] is following Aristotle's Aura Mediocritas,

[09:27–09:33] Inextreme will lead to tragedy.

[09:33–09:55] Helping people to replace their work with leisure is to change the subject way to limping humanity again at another level.

[10:03–10:13] just because not because she's allowed to do it, but because she gives extraordinary bold synthesis of it.

[13:03–13:07] No flattery is replaced.

[13:07–13:17] We should know to do perfectly with saying why when I plead about something there are arguments

[14:54–15:02] So enrich me, don't make me poor with pride and orgy.

[16:57–17:02] Don't implant, receive ideas.

[17:16–17:25] I already mentioned sand stoning, which one of you mentioned, and I like the word.

[17:25–17:37] Now, sand stoning is turning things into something which corresponds to the best statistic

[17:51–17:56] Well, this is not helping.

[21:38–21:49] have a dialogue and so cross iron the iron of logic or of reasoning of other kind.

[21:54–22:02] I dream trust we should bring between these two entities,
